#summary A logging component for PHP applications.

=PHPLogger - a logger component for PHP applications=

|| [https://code.google.com/p/fittest/source/browse/trunk/ITE%20Components%20standalone/Logging%20and%20Reporting%20Tools/PHP/PHPLogger/v1 src] || [https://googledrive.com/host/0B8DIOtn2sWX8cWVkclEyc280R2s/README.html doc] || [https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B-gYtYSYSFtncG5qS09fWkI0bGc/edit download] ||

A logging component for PHP applications. Enables the logging of HTTP server information as triples Request,Data,Response on PHP applications. Each triple is stored as a XML file with the IP, Port and timeStamp of the PHP request.

==REQUIREMENTS==

 * A PHP application deployed on a webserver.
 * OPTIONAL: the [https://code.google.com/p/fittest/wiki/FittestIte FITTEST ITE], which will use this component to collect logs from PHP sessions.
	
==PREPARING==

 # Copy the PHP logger (files !FittestPhpLogger.php, !FittestPhpLoggerConfig.php and Properties.php) to a folder (i.e. eu.fittest.phplogger) in the root directory of your PHP web application. Alternatively, you can get the logger from the ITE if it is already running:
{{{
wget http://"IP of FITTEST ITE":8008/tools/phplogger.zip
}}}
 # Copy the folder ".fittest" (includes the configuration file "phploggercomponent.conf") to the root directory of your PHP web application. If you are using the ITE, this folder must be writable by the PHP logging component, which will be run by the FITTEST server agent.
 # To use the logger component without the ITE, edit the file "phploggercomponent.conf" to set the property "phploggercomponent.logging.dir" to a folder in which the PHP application has write access. This folder will contain all the PHP logs from PHP sessions, only if the logging has been enabled through the property "phploggercomponent.logging.enabled".
 # Setup the PHP directive "auto_prepend_file" to automatically include the "!FittestPhpLogger.php" file before the web application main-file. The directive can be set in either the global "php.ini" file, the webserver configuration file, or a ".htaccess" file in the root directory of the web application.

For example, if the index.php page of the application is located in /var/www/yourapp/, create a file "/var/www/yourapp/.htaccess" with the content:
{{{
php_value auto_prepend_file  /var/www/yourapp/eu.fittest.phplogger/FittestPhpLogger.php"
}}}

==RUNNING==

Just run your PHP application as usual. To log with the ITE, a recording session has to be started previously. As clients start using the web application all the requests will generate a new XML file in the folder established by the property "phploggercomponent.logging.dir" inside "phploggercomponent.conf". This property is automatically established by the ITE to a temporal folder.